Problem Statement :

	To design and develop a system to predict binding affinity between a drug compound and Gene-protein-target using Single Task Learning and Multi Task Learning Models and perform drug repurposing techniques on a target protein.

Introduction : 

	Drug discovery is a long, challenging and expensive process that incorporates specialised knowledge
	from the field of medicine. To reduce this complexity, both in terms of time and effor many computational methods have been developed. 

	This project aims to find and explore the use of various computational methods, including the
	the deep neural networks, for predicting the binding affinity of protein-ligand interactions.

	Dataset used here is ChEMBL, a publicly available database with protein-ligand binding information.4

	Here we aim at imputing new values in the initially drug compound sparse matrix.

	We follow a ligand-based approach and use chemical fingerprints as features for the models.

Processing of dataset: 

	797 kinases protein targets are selected and data set is obtained.

	Using the kinases protein targets the compounds and interactions are obtained using ChemBL API.

	SMILES(Simplified Molecular Input Line Entry System) of compounds are obtained from ChemBL API.

Filteration of targets : 

	Filter the targets based on, 

	Keep compounds for which there is a SMILES representation and IC50<10000

	If there are still duplicates between the same target-compound pair we keep the one with the lowest value.

	Afterwards, we select only those targets that have at least 100 known interactions.

	We also select only those compounds that share interactions with at least two targets.

	Finally we obtain, 110 targets and 23361 compounds with a total of 62656 interactions.

Using Compound Fingerprint as features : 

	Compound SMILES dataset is imported and read.

	SMILES are split from the compounds and are assigned as tokens.

	Each token is passed through the RDKit which converts the tokens into bit-string.

	The obtained bit-strings are the compound fingerprints.

Modules : 

	Single Task Learning is a common approach to solve regression problems when we have multiple parameter as inputs and single output.

	For this dataset we use three single Task learning methods
	
			Random Forest
			Lasso Regression
			Neural networks

	Here we train unique model for every single target present in the dataset

	In contrast to single task learning, multitask learning enables the learning of several targets simultaneously.

	Here we train one model for all the target present in the dataset.
	
	This approach is expected to make the analysis easier and offer a significant speed-up in training times.

Improving Models with self-training : 

	Self train is done by iteratively expanding the training set with confident predictions and re-training. 

	This is essentially the ability of a model to train itself in order
	to become more accurate.

	A self-train model is constructed from the best of STL and MTL Models.

Drug repurposing : 

	The self train model is fed with a new set of drugs so if an interaction exists, the particular drug can be given to a particular protein target.

Final evaluation : 
		
	Finding new set of drug interactions so-called drug repurposing.
	
	Impute the missing values of the so-called DTI matrix.
 
	Benchmarking all the models to find overall efficiency.


